Component configuration guides (#41)
kinvolk/lokomotive: docs/configuration-guides/components/prometheus-operator.md

    "kubernetes.io/hostname" = "worker3"
  }

  alertmanager_retention    = "360h"
  alertmanager_external_url = "https://api.example.com/alertmanager"
  alertmanager_config       = file("alertmanager-config.yaml")
  alertmanager_node_selector = {
    "kubernetes.io/hostname" = "worker3"
  }
```

Create `alertmanager-config.yaml` file if necessary. Visit the [alertmanager
configuration](https://prometheus.io/docs/alerting/configuration/#configuration-file) for more
information.

**Note**: Make sure it is indented to two spaces.

```yaml
  config:
    global:
      resolve_timeout: 5m
    route:
      group_by:
      - job
      group_wait: 30s
      group_interval: 5m
      repeat_interval: 12h
      receiver: 'null'
      routes:
      - match:
          alertname: Watchdog
        receiver: 'null'
    receivers:
    - name: 'null'
```

## Argument Reference

Table of all the arguments accepted by the component.

Example:

| Argument | Description | Default | Required |
|--------	|--------------|:-------:|:--------:|
| `namespace` | Namespace to deploy the prometheus operator into. | - | true |
| `grafana_admin_password` | Password for `admin` user in Grafana.  | - | true |

> | `etcd_endpoints` | List of endpoints via which etcd can be reachable from Kubernetes. | [] | false |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `etcd_endpoints` | List of endpoints where etcd can be reachable from Kubernetes. | [] | false |
```

| `prometheus_operator_node_selector` | Node selector to specify nodes where the Prometheus Operator pods should be deployed. | {} | false |

> | `prometheus_metrics_retention` | Time duration Prometheus shall retain data for. Must match the regular expression `[0-9]+(ms\|s\|m\|h\|d\|w\|y)` (milliseconds seconds minutes hours days weeks years). | `10d` | false |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `prometheus_metrics_retention` | Time duration Prometheus shall retain data for. Must match the regular expression `[0-9]+(ms\|s\|m\|h\|d\|w\|y)` (milliseconds, seconds, minutes, hours, days, weeks, years). | `10d` | false |
```

> | `prometheus_external_url` | The external URL the Prometheus instances will be available under. This is necessary to generate correct URLs. This is necessary if Prometheus is not served from root of a DNS name. | "" | false |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `prometheus_external_url` | The external URL Prometheus instances will be available under. This is necessary to generate correct URLs. This is necessary if Prometheus is not served from root of a DNS name. | "" | false |
```

| `prometheus_node_selector` | Node selector to specify nodes where the Prometheus pods should be deployed. | {} | false |

> | `alertmanager_retention` | Time duration Alertmanager shall retain data for. Must match the regular expression `[0-9]+(ms\|s\|m\|h)` (milliseconds seconds minutes hours). | `120h` | false |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `alertmanager_retention` | Time duration Alertmanager shall retain data for. Must match the regular expression `[0-9]+(ms\|s\|m\|h)` (milliseconds, seconds, minutes, hours). | `120h` | false |
```

| `alertmanager_node_selector` | Node selector to specify nodes where the AlertManager pods should be deployed. | {} | false |

## Installation

To install the Prometheus operator component:

```bash
lokoctl component install prometheus-operator
```

### Post-installation

To start monitoring your applications running on Kubernetes. Just create a `ServiceMonitor` object
in that namespace which looks like following:

```yaml
apiVersion: monitoring.coreos.com/v1
kind: ServiceMonitor
metadata:
  labels:
    app: openebs
  name: openebs
  namespace: openebs
spec:
  endpoints:
  - path: /metrics
    port: exporter
  namespaceSelector:
    matchNames:
    - openebs
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      openebs.io/cas-type: cstor
```

> Change the `labels`, `endpoints`, `namespaceSelector`, `selector` fields as you need. To know more

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Change the `labels`, `endpoints`, `namespaceSelector`, `selector` fields as you need. To learn more
```
